OVN_Kubernetes IPv6 support (#241)
submariner-io/enhancements: submariner/IPV6-OVN.md

> # **Submariner Enhancement for IPv6 Support**

Reviewer: Since this is OVN specific, probably we can update the sentence to

```suggestion
# **Submariner OVN CNI Enhancement for IPv6 Support**
```

Author: Done.

## **Summary**

This proposal outlines the changes required in Submariner for  OVN Kubernetes
CNI to enable IPv6 support, ensuring seamless connectivity between clusters
using Submariner. The main proposal has the full design

> [IPv6 Datapath Enhancements](https://github.com/submariner-io/enhancements/blob/devel/submariner/IPV6-datapath.md)

Reviewer: Better to use relative url (rather than full URL)

Author: Done.

This covers only the OVN CNI part of it.

---

## Design Details

The OVNKubernetes handler programs network policies and routes to direct traffic from
the gateway and non-gateway nodes to direct the traffic to the remote cluster.
At present the routes are only programmed for IPv4 for addresses. We need to enhance

> this to support IPV6 addresses as well.

Reviewer 2: Does OVN_handler also need to be changed to support IPV6/dual-stack?

Author: The IPV6 host networking rules needs to be added similar to other CNI, IIUC , it is covered in the main proposal. Should we add it here?

Reviewer 2: Correct, it is covered in the main proposal

The handler for creating the Gateway and NonGateway routes needs to be enhanced.

### GatewayRoute CRD

The GatewayRoute will now populate Ipv4 and Ipv6 addresses for the next hops and
remote CIDRs for a dual-stack environment. For Ipv6 only it uses just the IPv6
address for these fields. Ipv4 will continue as it is.

> The next hop will be the interface IP of ovn-k8s-mp0 interface, which is expected

Reviewer: When we create the GatewayRoute and NonGatewayRoute CRs, we are essentially programming OVN Openflow pipeline and will be using the GENEVE tunnels already created by OVN itself for both v4 and v6 traffic right?

Author: Yes.

to have two IPs in the case of dual-stack environments.

```yaml

> apiVersion: submariner.io/v1alpha1

Reviewer 2: Do you think we should create GatewayRoute CR for each IP family?

Reviewer: Looking at the sample example below, i assume that we will use only a single GatewayRoute (one for each remote endpoint) that has both the CIDRs in it.

Author: Now I changed it to two CRs one for IPv4 and IP6 as per the discussion in the call.

spec:
  nextHops:
    - "fd00:abcd::1"
    - "192.168.1.1"
  remoteCIDRs:
    - "fd00:4321::/64"
    - "10.0.0.0/8"
```

### NonGatewayRoute CRD

The NonGatewayRoute will follow the same pattern as GatewayRoute for populating next
hops and remotecidrs. The nexthops will be the transit switch IP of the gateway node.

#### **NonGatewayRoute CRD Example**

```yaml
apiVersion: submariner.io/v1alpha1
kind: NonGatewayRoute
metadata:
  name: non-gw-route
spec:
  nextHops:
    - "fd00:cafe::1"
    - "172.16.0.1"
  remoteCIDRs:
    - "fd00:5678::/64"
    - "192.168.0.0/16"
```

### GatewayRoute Handler

The gateway route handler should iterate through the ips configured and must identify
the ipv4 remote CIDR and nextHop and Ipv6 remote CIDR pairs from the gateway route.
It will program one or two logical route policies and logical routes based on the
network configuration. For dual-stack, it will be two LRPs. Similarly a logical route
will be added to route the traffic from the non-gateway nodes and will be resubmitted
to hit the above added Logical route policy.

```plaintext
match: "ip6.dst==fd00:5678::/64"
action: reroute
nexthops: ["fd00:abcd::1"]
priority: 20000
```

> ```plaintext

Reviewer: Maybe you can add a small note explaining what this section is about.

Author: Done.

destination: "fd00:1234::/64"
nexthop: "fd00:cafe::1"
priority: 200
```

### NonGatewayRoute Handler

The NonGatewayRoute  handler should iterate through the ips configured and must
identify the ipv4 remote CIDR and nextHop and Ipv6 remote CIDR pairs from the
gateway route. It will program one or two logical route policies and logical
routes based on the network configuration. For dual stack it will be two LRPs.

```plaintext
match: "ip6.dst==fd00:5678::/64"
action: reroute
nexthops: ["fd00:abcd::1"]
priority: 20000
```

> ---

Reviewer: work items?

Author: Added

# **Submariner OVN CNI Enhancement for IPv6 Support**

## **Summary**

This proposal outlines the changes required in Submariner for  OVN Kubernetes
CNI to enable IPv6 support, ensuring seamless connectivity between clusters
using Submariner. The main proposal has the full design
[IPv6 Datapath Enhancements](IPV6-datapath.md)
This covers only the OVN CNI part of it.

---

## Design Details

The OVNKubernetes handler programs network policies and routes to direct traffic from

> the gateway and non-gateway nodes to direct the traffic to the remote cluster.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we need to rephrase this sentence?

Author: Done , changed to driver instead of handler.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the gateway and non-gateway nodes to the remote cluster.
```

> At present the routes are only programmed for IPv4 for addresses. We need to enhance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At present the routes are only programmed for IPv4 addresses. We need to enhance
```

Author: Done.

this to support IPV6 addresses as well.

The handler for creating the Gateway and NonGateway routes needs to be enhanced.

### GatewayRoute CRD

> The GatewayRoute will now create a new CR for with  the IPV6 next hops and

Reviewer 2: I assume we want to  create GatewayRoute,NonGatewayRoute CRs per remote endpoint IP family only if this IP family is supported by local-cluster.

Author: We check this at the time of join right? Do we need another check here?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A GatewayRoute CR will be created with the IPV6 next hops and
```

Reviewer 2: > We check this at the time of join right? Do we need another check here?

Yep, we verify that we can create at least one tunnel between two clusters.

Assuming the following use case:
Cluster 1 is IPV4
Cluster2 is dual stack

The validation is green for this case.
How many GatewayRoute,NonGatewayRoute CRs should be created in Cluster1 to route traffic to Cluster2?

Do you see any point in creating GatewayRoute,NonGatewayRoute for IPV6?

Author: Done.

> IPV6 remote CIDRs for a dual-stack environment along with the existing IPv4 CIDR.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
IPV6 remote CIDRs for a dual-stack environment in addition to the IPv4 GatewayRoute.
```

Author: Rephrased.

> In the case of a dual-stack environment a CR will be create for both IPv4 and Ipv6 addresses.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the case of a dual-stack environment a CR will be created for both IPv4 and Ipv6 addresses.
```

Author: Done.

> For Ipv6 only there will be only the IPV6 CR

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For IPv6. only an IPV6 GatewayRoute will be created.
```

Author: Done.

> For IPv6, only an IPV6 GatewayRoute will be created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For IPv6, only an IPv6 GatewayRoute will be created.
```

Author: Done.

The next hop will be the interface IP of ovn-k8s-mp0 interface, which is expected

> to have both IPv4 and IPV6 IPs in the case of dual-stack environments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to have both IPv4 and IPv6 IPs in the case of dual-stack environments.
```

Author: Done.

```yaml
apiVersion: submariner.io/v1alpha1
kind: GatewayRoute
metadata:
  name: remote-cluster-route
spec:
  nextHops:
    - "fd00:abcd::1"
  remoteCIDRs:
    - "fd00:4321::/64"
```

### NonGatewayRoute CRD

> The NonGatewayRoute will follow the same pattern as GatewayRoute and will create a new CR

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The NonGatewayRoute will follow the same pattern as GatewayRoute with the creation of a new CR
```

Author: Done.

> for IPV6. The nexthops will be the transit switch IP of the gateway node.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
for IPv6. The nexthops will be the transit switch IP of the gateway node.
```

Author: Done.

#### **NonGatewayRoute CRD Example**

```yaml
apiVersion: submariner.io/v1alpha1
kind: NonGatewayRoute
metadata:
  name: non-gw-route
spec:
  nextHops:
    - "fd00:cafe::1"
  remoteCIDRs:
    - "fd00:5678::/64"
```

### GatewayRoute Handler

> The GatewayRoute Handler should be aware of the IPV6 address that can be present in the CR

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The GatewayRoute Handler should be aware of the IPv6 address that can be present in the CR
```

Author: Done.

and program the logical router policy and the logical route accordingly.

The below is the logical router policy to reroute the submariner traffic to ovn-k8s-mp0.

```plaintext
match: "ip6.dst==fd00:5678::/64"
action: reroute
nexthops: ["fd00:abcd::1"]
priority: 20000
```

The below is the logical route to accept the traffic coming from non-gateway nodes.

```plaintext
destination: "fd00:1234::/64"
nexthop: "fd00:cafe::1"
priority: 200
```

### NonGatewayRoute Handler

> The NonGatewayRoute Handler should be aware of the IPV6 address that can be present in the CR

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The NonGatewayRoute Handler should be aware of the IPv6 address that can be present in the CR
```

Author: Done.
